README.md, before:

# HASN-AI: Revolutionary Brain-Inspired Neural Network

**Production-ready brain-inspired AI with automated learning, complete portability, and real-time adaptation**

HASN-AI implements a **Hierarchical Adaptive Spiking Network (HASN)** - a revolutionary neural architecture that replicates biological brain principles. Unlike traditional neural networks, this system uses actual spiking neurons, real-time learning, and complete state portability.

## What Makes HASN-AI Revolutionary

### True Brain-Inspired Architecture

- **Spiking Neural Networks**: Uses biological neuron models, not continuous activation
- **Spike-Timing Dependent Plasticity (STDP)**: Learns like biological brains
- **Hierarchical Modules**: Self-organizing cognitive architecture
- **Working Memory**: Integrated memory systems with natural capacity limits
- **Attention Mechanisms**: Selective information processing

### Complete Brain Portability** *(Revolutionary Feature

- **Save/Load Trained State**: Complete neural state preservation in JSON format
- **Cross-Platform Compatible**: Move trained brains between systems
- **Human-Readable Format**: Inspect and debug brain states
- **Perfect Restoration**: 100% identical neural patterns after loading
- **Version Control Friendly**: Track brain evolution over time

### Automated Internet Training

- **Continuous Learning**: 24/7 autonomous knowledge acquisition from web sources
- **Quality Filtering**: Intelligent content assessment and prioritization
- **Real-Time Adaptation**: Updates knowledge as it learns
- **Memory Consolidation**: Simulates sleep cycles for memory strengthening
- **Progress Monitoring**: Real-time learning analytics and dashboards

### Production-Ready APIs

- **Multiple API Options**: Simple, advanced, and brain-native interfaces
- **FastAPI Framework**: Production-grade REST APIs with automatic documentation
- **Rate Limiting**: Built-in security and performance controls
- **Health Monitoring**: Comprehensive system health checks
- **Interactive Chat**: Real-time conversation with the brain network

## Quick Start

### Basic Demo

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run basic brain demo
python src/demos/simple_brain_demo.py
```

### Start Production API

```bash
# Launch production API server
python src/api/main.py

# Visit http://localhost:8000/docs for interactive API documentation
```

### Run Cognitive Inference Examples

```bash
# Scenario demos for the cognitive brain network (spiking-based cognition)
python examples/cognitive_inference_demo.py
```

The cognitive demos show:

- Episodic memory storage with context
- Automatic association discovery
- Inference generation through memory correlation
- Memory consolidation over time
- Temporal and analogical reasoning

### Automated Training

```bash
# Setup automated training
python setup_automated_training.py

# Start continuous learning
python src/training/train_cli.py start --profile production --continuous

# Monitor progress
python src/training/train_cli.py monitor
```

### Train Cognitive Episodic Memory via API

```bash
# Start API
python src/api/main.py

# Post samples with context to store episodic memories
curl -s -X POST http://localhost:8000/training/interactive \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "input_data": [
      {"input": {"text": "Red is a color", "context": {"concept": "colors"}}},
      {"input": {"pattern": {"0": {"0": true}}, "context": {"concept": "greeting"}}, "label": "greeting"}
    ],
    "epochs": 1,
    "learning_rate": 0.01
  }'
```

The `context` ensures episodic memories are created and consolidated.

### Brain Portability Demo

```bash
# Demonstrate brain save/load capabilities
python demonstrate_brain_portability.py
```

##  **Key Achievements**

- **88% Production Complete** - Episodic-memory training via API
- **Perfect Brain Portability** - Complete state preservation verified
- **Automated Internet Training** - Self-learning from web sources (SimpleBrainNetwork)
- **Multiple Production APIs** - 3 different API implementations
- **Real-Time Learning** - Continuous adaptation without retraining
- **Complete Observability** - Watch exactly what the brain is thinking
- **Energy Efficient** - 1000x more efficient than traditional neural networks

## System Architecture

```
Internet Sources → Web Content Collector → Quality Assessment
                                                ↓
Brain State Storage ← HASN Brain Network ← Neural Pattern Converter
        ↓                    ↓
    JSON Files          Memory Systems → Attention & Working Memory
                             ↓
                    Production APIs → Health Monitoring
```

## Advantages Over Traditional AI

| Feature | Traditional Neural Networks | HASN-AI |
|---------|----------------------------|---------|
| **Learning** | Requires full retraining | Real-time continuous learning |
| **State Persistence** | Cannot save/load trained state | Complete brain portability |
| **Energy Efficiency** | High computational cost | 1000x more efficient (event-driven) |
| **Interpretability** | Black box decisions | Full neural activity observability |
| **Biological Realism** | Mathematical abstractions | Actual brain principles |
| **Memory Systems** | External memory required | Integrated working memory |
| **Adaptation** | Static after training | Self-organizing and adaptive |

## Documentation

- **[Complete Documentation](docs/INDEX.md)** - Comprehensive documentation index
- **[Production Roadmap](docs/deployment/PRODUCTION_ROADMAP.md)** - Deployment guide
- **[Brain Portability Guide](docs/portability/BRAIN_PORTABILITY_OPTIONS.md)** - State persistence
- **[Training System](src/training/AUTOMATED_TRAINING_README.md)** - Automated learning
- **[️Architecture Details](docs/architecture/)** - Technical architecture
- **[Analysis & Comparisons](docs/analysis/)** - Performance analysis

## Applications

- **Neuromorphic Computing**: Ultra-low power AI chips
- **Temporal Recognition**: Speech, music, video processing  
- **Brain-Computer Interfaces**: Natural neural compatibility
- **Adaptive Robotics**: Real-time sensorimotor control
- **Cognitive Modeling**: Understanding consciousness
- **Green AI**: Sustainable computing solutions

---

_"Ready for production deployment • 88% complete • Revolutionary breakthrough in AI"_

_"Made with Vibe Coding"_

Commit message:

Add contribution and security guidelines to documentation
- Introduced a new CONTRIBUTION.md file outlining the process for contributing to the project, including setup, development standards, and testing protocols.
- Updated README.md to reference the new contribution guidelines.
- Added a SECURITY.md file detailing the security policy, reporting vulnerabilities, and best practices for contributors.
- Enhanced overall documentation clarity and organization to improve user experience and onboarding for new contributors.

README.md, after:

# HASN-AI: Revolutionary Brain-Inspired Neural Network

**Production-ready brain-inspired AI with automated learning, complete portability, and real-time adaptation**

HASN-AI implements a **Hierarchical Adaptive Spiking Network (HASN)** - a revolutionary neural architecture that replicates biological brain principles. Unlike traditional neural networks, this system uses actual spiking neurons, real-time learning, and complete state portability.

## What Makes HASN-AI Revolutionary

### True Brain-Inspired Architecture

- **Spiking Neural Networks**: Uses biological neuron models, not continuous activation
- **Spike-Timing Dependent Plasticity (STDP)**: Learns like biological brains
- **Hierarchical Modules**: Self-organizing cognitive architecture
- **Working Memory**: Integrated memory systems with natural capacity limits
- **Attention Mechanisms**: Selective information processing

### Complete Brain Portability** *(Revolutionary Feature

- **Save/Load Trained State**: Complete neural state preservation in JSON format
- **Cross-Platform Compatible**: Move trained brains between systems
- **Human-Readable Format**: Inspect and debug brain states
- **Perfect Restoration**: 100% identical neural patterns after loading
- **Version Control Friendly**: Track brain evolution over time

### Automated Internet Training

- **Continuous Learning**: 24/7 autonomous knowledge acquisition from web sources
- **Quality Filtering**: Intelligent content assessment and prioritization
- **Real-Time Adaptation**: Updates knowledge as it learns
- **Memory Consolidation**: Simulates sleep cycles for memory strengthening
- **Progress Monitoring**: Real-time learning analytics and dashboards

### Production-Ready APIs

- **Multiple API Options**: Simple, advanced, and brain-native interfaces
- **FastAPI Framework**: Production-grade REST APIs with automatic documentation
- **Rate Limiting**: Built-in security and performance controls
- **Health Monitoring**: Comprehensive system health checks
- **Interactive Chat**: Real-time conversation with the brain network

## Quick Start

### Basic Demo

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run basic brain demo
python src/demos/simple_brain_demo.py
```

### Start Production API

```bash
# Launch production API server
python src/api/main.py

# Visit http://localhost:8000/docs for interactive API documentation
```

### Run Cognitive Inference Examples

```bash
# Scenario demos for the cognitive brain network (spiking-based cognition)
python examples/cognitive_inference_demo.py
```

The cognitive demos show:

- Episodic memory storage with context
- Automatic association discovery
- Inference generation through memory correlation
- Memory consolidation over time
- Temporal and analogical reasoning

### Automated Training

```bash
# Setup automated training
python setup_automated_training.py

# Start continuous learning
python src/training/train_cli.py start --profile production --continuous

# Monitor progress
python src/training/train_cli.py monitor
```

### Train Cognitive Episodic Memory via API

```bash
# Start API
python src/api/main.py

# Post samples with context to store episodic memories
curl -s -X POST http://localhost:8000/training/interactive \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "input_data": [
      {"input": {"text": "Red is a color", "context": {"concept": "colors"}}},
      {"input": {"pattern": {"0": {"0": true}}, "context": {"concept": "greeting"}}, "label": "greeting"}
    ],
    "epochs": 1,
    "learning_rate": 0.01
  }'
```

The `context` ensures episodic memories are created and consolidated.

### Brain Portability Demo

```bash
# Demonstrate brain save/load capabilities
python demonstrate_brain_portability.py
```

##  **Key Achievements**

- **88% Production Complete** - Episodic-memory training via API
- **Perfect Brain Portability** - Complete state preservation verified
- **Automated Internet Training** - Self-learning from web sources (SimpleBrainNetwork)
- **Multiple Production APIs** - 3 different API implementations
- **Real-Time Learning** - Continuous adaptation without retraining
- **Complete Observability** - Watch exactly what the brain is thinking
- **Energy Efficient** - 1000x more efficient than traditional neural networks

## System Architecture

```
Internet Sources → Web Content Collector → Quality Assessment
                                                ↓
Brain State Storage ← HASN Brain Network ← Neural Pattern Converter
        ↓                    ↓
    JSON Files          Memory Systems → Attention & Working Memory
                             ↓
                    Production APIs → Health Monitoring
```

## Advantages Over Traditional AI

| Feature | Traditional Neural Networks | HASN-AI |
|---------|----------------------------|---------|
| **Learning** | Requires full retraining | Real-time continuous learning |
| **State Persistence** | Cannot save/load trained state | Complete brain portability |
| **Energy Efficiency** | High computational cost | 1000x more efficient (event-driven) |
| **Interpretability** | Black box decisions | Full neural activity observability |
| **Biological Realism** | Mathematical abstractions | Actual brain principles |
| **Memory Systems** | External memory required | Integrated working memory |
| **Adaptation** | Static after training | Self-organizing and adaptive |

## Documentation

- **[Complete Documentation](docs/INDEX.md)** - Comprehensive documentation index
- **[Production Roadmap](docs/deployment/PRODUCTION_ROADMAP.md)** - Deployment guide
- **[Brain Portability Guide](docs/portability/BRAIN_PORTABILITY_OPTIONS.md)** - State persistence
- **[Training System](src/training/AUTOMATED_TRAINING_README.md)** - Automated learning
- **[️Architecture Details](docs/architecture/)** - Technical architecture
- **[Analysis & Comparisons](docs/analysis/)** - Performance analysis

## Applications

- **Neuromorphic Computing**: Ultra-low power AI chips
- **Temporal Recognition**: Speech, music, video processing  
- **Brain-Computer Interfaces**: Natural neural compatibility
- **Adaptive Robotics**: Real-time sensorimotor control
- **Cognitive Modeling**: Understanding consciousness
- **Green AI**: Sustainable computing solutions

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTION.md](CONTRIBUTION.md) for guidelines on development, linting/formatting, security scans, and submitting pull requests.

## Security

Please review our [Security policy](Security.md) for how to report vulnerabilities and recommended scanning steps.

## License

This project is licensed under the terms described in [LICENSE](LICENSE).

---

_"Ready for production deployment • 88% complete • Revolutionary breakthrough in AI"_

_"Made with Vibe Coding"_
